Hello everyone welcome back.
This is the solution to the section 11 challenge and I'm in the section 11 workspace and the challenge
solution project I'd like to go over one possible solution to this project.
This is a solution that I've done very modular.
All the functions are there they're all small they do one thing and they do them well.
So let's go through this.
Let's look at our main First let's start there.
Main defines numbers which is the vector of integers just like we've had before and it's got a character
variable called selection.
That's where the user is going to type in their selection their menu selection.
Now we've got our DO LOOP do loop and others.
I folded the code here.
There's obviously more code here in the switch statement but I'm just going to show you the overall
structure of this of this loop.
So here we're doing do display the menu.
Notice that now we're calling a function to display the menu.
Then I'm going to get the selection from the users or whatever they type in I'm going to store in selection
but I'm just going to store it in selection I want to make an upper case and then store it in selection
that way I don't have to check for lower case and upper case every time I check for a selection and
I want to do this loop while the selection is not equal to an upper case.
Q Okay so that's pretty much it.
Now let's take a look at our display menu function and it's right down here and I'll expand it right
now and you can see that that's the function display menu.
In all it is is the output statements just like we had before.
Inside the main.
So in this case whenever I need to display the menu I can call this function and I'm doing that exactly
here OK.
Now let's take a look at the get selection function here is to get selection function and you could
see the name of the function is good selection.
It expects nothing but it does return a character.
So in this case I'm defining another character variable.
Remember this variable here is local to this function.
I'm simply reading from the keyboard.
There's selection and I'm converting it to uppercase and returning it.
OK so that's that one.
So at this point I've displayed the menu and remember the menu has at the very bottom of the menu enter
your choice.
I don't really need to prompt the user for anything it's already there.
So I'm displaying the menu I'm getting this election and selection will now contain an uppercase character.
OK.
Perfect.
So now we're going to switch off of that character and let me expand the switch statement here.
So in this case if the selection is a P I'm going to call a function called handle display because remember
p is to print down all the integers in the vector.
And I'm going to pass in the vector to that function.
If it's an A I'm going to do handle add Amma's handle mean as is handle smallest ELAS handle largest
Q Is hand-bill quit and default.
I'm just going to handle an unknown.
So you can see though that the logic in Maine is exactly like it was before except we're calling functions
we don't have all that code written in here.
Also this allows us to think modularly right now.
I've got functions doing those defined tasks so again it's that boss worker analogy at work here it's
perfect for that.
Let's take a look at handle display.
So in this case the user selects P..
Notice I don't have to check uppercase and lowercase anymore because the get selection function already
made everything uppercase.
So I'm going to call handle display and I want to pass in the vector to it because obviously it needs
to display the vector.
Let's come over here to handle display and you can see the function right here.
Now notice handle display.
It expects a vector and I'm passing the vector in by reference and Konst just as we've spoken about
before.
This handle this display method really has no business changing that vector.
So I'm not going to even take the chance that it will.
I'm passing it by reference.
I don't have to copy it and Konst.
So let's take a look at that.
All right so we've got our vector here so I'm checking to see if the size of the vector is zero.
In which case it's empty and I'm displaying the list is empty otherwise I'm calling a function called
display the list and I'm passing in that vector the same vector I got in passing to the function.
I could have looped in here and displayed the list right here of course but I decided to create another
function because you know we could tweak the behavior of what the display looks like and I don't want
all that code in here necessarily.
So let's take a look at display list it's toward the bottom I'm going to scroll down here.
There's the display list function right here.
Again it expects the same vector that was sent to the function prior.
And now if you look at the code it's going to print out a left bracket then it's going to loop through
that vector and print out each number just like before.
But you can see that this list displays just the list that's all it does and whenever I need to display
a list of integers I could just send it right to this function.
OK so that's display list.
Scroll back up and let's talk about handle add.
So now we're here.
Handle add another function whenever the user presses a they want to add a number to the list right.
So I want to call handle at an on a Past the list the vector.
So let's see the handle add method.
I'll scroll down slightly and will see handle at is right here.
Now notice that in this case I'm not still passing the vector by reference because I want to add an
integer to it right so I need to have the reference to it but not Konst because I need to change it.
I need to ask the user for an integer and stored in the vector.
So let's look at that code.
We're doing everything right in here we're saying there is an integer called numb to add or remember
that member your scope rules here that integer is local to this function.
I'm asking the user to enter an integer to add to the list.
I'm getting that integer from them from the keyboard and then I'm simply calling the push back method
of the vector class with the number to add and displaying the message that it really really easy.
OK so let me go back up to the main and let's see handle mean.
How does that work.
What will going to the handle mean function which is right here.
Again it expects a reference to a vector and its constant.
I don't want my handle mean modifying the vector.
So what do we do.
We check to see if the vector is empty.
If it is we just say unable to calculate the mean.
The list is empty otherwise we call calculate mean and we pass in the vector.
It's going to return a double to me which I'm going to display right in here.
So it's going to say the mean is whatever number I get back.
All right so let's take a look at calculate mean or scroll down here.
These calculate mean.
Notice again it's the same vector same syntax here by reference constant.
There's my total.
I'm looping through those numbers adding them all up to total and then I'm casting one of these to a
double and dividing by the size.
Exactly like we had before.
It's pretty much the same code that we had in the prior challenge of Section 9 challenge.
Except we're breaking it up into modules here so that's it.
That's calculate mean and I think you can see where we're going with the rest of this.
Here is the close up handle mean we've got handle smallest handle largest were exactly the same way
and then Hendel quit and Hendel unknown.
We're really doing very little in there but I decided to make them functions because you never know
what you need to do in there.
Suppose you are working with files and the user quits and you want to close up files and so forth.
You'd like to do that in a function and not here in the main.
I want to keep my main really really simple easy to read and straightforward so I a handle quick.
Kind of looks like this right here.
You can see handle quick.
It's all it's saying is goodbye and my handle unknown is saying unknown selection.
I should spell that right.
A non-selection try again.
OK so that's pretty much the solution I've got.
Then you scroll up to the top and I've got all the function prototypes at the top.
So there my function prototypes here the prototypes for displaying the menu and getting the user selection
display the menu expects nothing returns nothing.
Good selection expects nothing returns a character.
And I've got my menu handling function prototypes.
Notice that all of them expect a reference to the vector that's constant except handle add because handle
add needs to change the vector so it can't be constant.
Could have got handle a quick handle unknown and then I've got the functions that actually do the work
right.
The display list displays the list calculate mean give me the vector V back the double That's the mean
get smallest same idea get largest same idea except for returning an integer.
OK so what do we want to do.
Let's let's modify this program a little bit.
Let's add some functionality to it.
Suppose the user wants to see if a specific integer is in the list or not.
OK so how do we do that.
Well there's a couple of things we need to do.
Obviously we need to do some function prototyping here.
So let's do that let's put it right under here under-handed largest will say void how much is handled
find We're going to find an integer in that vector right.
Is that going to change the vector.
But I still need the vector someone to say Konst a vector of integers and I want it by reference and
will use the V again.
We don't have to use the parameter names in here but I'm going to just use the V.
So that's my handle find.
OK.
Now here we need to know.
So here we need a function that's actually going to do the finding.
Right.
And it's going to return a boolean true or false.
I really don't want to know how many times it's there.
You could certainly write a function like that but let's just call it find.
And what does expect will it expects that vector to look through.
Right.
And again it's a vector of integers and it's by reference.
And what else does it expect it expects the integer that you're looking for.
So in this case let's just call it Target that's the integer I'm looking for.
So those are my prototypes.
But before we even get to those prototypes let's fix up the menu so that it displays that that f right
so to go down to display menu and right after display largest.
I'm just going to say seek out and I'll put an F in there and we'll say find a number.
All right so that should display.
Now what do we do.
Well we need to handle that case in Main right.
So we'll do it right after the largest read here.
So we'll say case f in this case and we don't have to worry about the lower case because it's going
to be converted to an uppercase and we'll say handle find.
And we've got numbers.
All right.
Perfect.
So now what we need to do is we know we need to write these two functions that we prototype we need
to write handle find.
And we need to write the Find function these chip.
So let's do handle find first and we'll put it right at the bottom of the handle functions right here
right after handle largest.
And we could read a comment in here but I'm going to rent not just to save time.
So there's my handle find.
Now what does the Hindol find function have to do.
It has to ask the user to enter the integer they want to find right.
So let's just call it Target and initialize it to zero and we'll just say something like see out enter
the number to find where to search for whatever you want to call it and we'll read that into Target.
Now what do we do.
Well we've got that function we still need to write the Find function that returns a boolean.
So we're going to use that right now without even writing it because we know what it looks like.
We wrote the prototype for it right.
So I'm going to say if
find and I'm going to pass into it the vector and the target
get rid of some of those purines that's it.
So if find that target in this vector returns true then the energy is in there.
So we could just write something like Target
was found
else target wasn't found.
And I'll put some new ones at the end so lines.
That's pretty much handles that function.
So what do we have left to implement.
Well we need to implement the scroll up a little bit here.
We need to implement this function right here the one that returns the true false value.
And I'm going to put that all the way at the bottom with all my other good functions that doing that
are doing work it right after I get smallest right here.
Let's write it right here and there is the prototype right.
So what am I going to do here.
Well I'm going to loop through the vector and compare each element to the target.
If it's there I'm out.
If it's not I keep looping and if I get to the end I never found it right.
So we can do something like four again auto numb for each element through the loop will be called numb
and there there's my collection the vector and we'll just say if numb is equal to my target then I'm
done.
I found it and when it returned true.
Now if we get all the way to the end of the loop we don't want to put this here and if it is here we'll
just simply say return false.
We never found it.
So let's run this OK we've got an error it says number was not declared in this scope because it should
be numbers right.
Hopefully you see that error right there was just a typo and let's try it again.
There's I run.
Here you see the F in menu now.
So let's find a number that's find 100.
That is how it asked me for the number to find.
The list is empty right so should not find it.
One hundred it was not found good by what happened.
That's an error right.
I should have never printed goodbye.
That's quick and see what's going on.
Ha.
Need a break statement.
That's why we need to test our code.
Forgot the breaks didn't you remember when the switch goes to the next one so handle quit fired.
Let's try this one more time.
So let's find 100 100 was not found.
We get the menu again.
That's ad 100.
And let's look for it again.
I'm pressing for find.
Let's find 100.
Now it says 100 was found.
And that's print the numbers.
There you go 100.
So we've modularized our system into a series of functions.
We easily added a new behavior to this which is defined.
And you can see now the code is longer for sure because you also have a lot of comments in here.
But you've got these really well-defined logical functions that are much easier to debug.
If there's something wrong you can come in here and tweak it.
You can also extend the behavior of the ad rather than having just one big main and if you make any
changes you're going to put all your logic in there and that man gets out of control very quickly.
OK.
So hopefully your solution it's probably going to be different from mine and that's perfectly fine.
Hopefully it worked out OK and if you have any comments on it please leave them in the course forum.